# Restaurant Shipka

### Java Mastery Project #1 – 2024

***

## Overview

Congratulations! You are now taking your first steps in the amazing journey of diving into our traditional Bulgarian restaurant with a touch of modern technology and a pinch of passion, served on a spread of Java!

This project was developed as a first homework project in the Java Mastery course 2024 of Code Academy. And it took a lot of effort and thinking to bring it to the finishing line but here it is and you now have the chance to see and test our code.

The project represents a restaurant serving a traditional Bulgarian cuisine. Its menu consists of several dishes, divided into categories of 4: salads, soups, pre course, main course, desserts and beverages. Each meal is generated by a recipe generator that takes the necessary components of the meal's recipe and their quantity.

When the waiter takes an order from a table, they bring it to the kitchen, where the cook takes it and prepares the meals according to the generated recipes. When preparing the meals the restaurant storage is accordingly updated with the taken amounts of the products for each recipe. After the order is complete in the kitchen the waiter takes it to the table and a bill is generated to be paid. The payment is then added to the restaurant turnover.

***

## Simulation

Sounds cool, right? Let's take a deeper look:

Everything starts with 100gr of... Product.

So, we have Products, we have Shafts that store the quantity of each product and these Shafts are placed in our ProductStorage, situated in the kitchen for easier access of the Cook. At the beginning of each WorkDay, the ProductStorage is loaded with Products and their quantities (randomly generated) then the turnover is updated accordingly (don't forget - food costs a lot of money).

Our restaurant is open 8 hours a day and it has different workload in each of these hours, you can check SimulatorParameters for further reference. We have 10 tables, each seating max of 4 people.

Throughout the day the waiters are monitoring the seating area constantly scanning the tables for new clients. When a client group arrives, they check the number of people in the group, what is the hour of the day, how many free tables and seats we have available and they seat the clients if the necessary requirements are met. After the clients order, the waiter takes the order to the kitchen and the magic happens.

These cyclic actions are demonstrated with the help pf our RestaurantSimulator class that generates a simulation of the 8 hour working day of the restaurant in just 28 seconds and then displays information for the tables, clients, orders and waiters throughout the whole day in the HistoryLog.

You can choose to see this feature by pressing one on your keyboard after running the Main method.

***

## Interaction

But did I not promise you food?

Of course I did, you can browse the menu yourself!

Select option 2 in the dialog console and there you have it. Restaurant Shipka MENU for your preview! Here you can go through the dishes and check their price, you can create a new order, update or remove an existing one and everything happens just like you are interacting with the waiter.

Once you complete your order the waiter will confirm that everything is as you want it to be and then he will take it to the kitchen for cooking. Of course, the cook will prepare your meals and then you will have the chance to enjoy your food and drink. Payment is in order now, so prepare your wallets and don't forget to leave 10% tip for the waiter!

The turnover is then updated with the profit and the waiter gets their cash tips.

Unfortunately, we have some cases when some products for an ordered meal are out of Stock, don't be upset, we will give you a special compliment on the house if that happens.

And that's it – have fun checking out our project!

***

## Interaction

Here are some key classes for starters:

### Product

* ProdcutPerKg
* ProductPerLt
* EnumerableProduct

### Shaft

* ShaftPerKg
* ShaftPerLt
* EnumerableShaft

### Kitchen

* ProductStorage
* StirageGeberator
* Recipe
* RecipeGenerator

### Food

* Meal
* Beverage

### Restaurant

* Order
* Bill
* Table
* TablesOrder
* OrderStatus
* Client
* Owner
* RestaurantMenu

### Employee

* Waiter
* Cook
* Cleaner
* Manager

### Simulation

* WorkDay
* Time
* SimulationParameters
* RestaurantSimulator
* HistoryLog

### Interaction

* UserMenu
* RestaurantInteraction
* OrdersQueue

You can always check the full diagram [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mJXBuL2vk-M9q00ptI6lGmFja2nzK0QN/view?usp=sharing).

***

## Helpful Links

* [Diagram](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mJXBuL2vk-M9q00ptI6lGmFja2nzK0QN/view?usp=sharing)
* [Git Project](https://github.com/Code-Academy-BG/Project-Restaurant-Team-3-JMP1)
* [Project Presentation](https://github.com/Code-Academy-BG/Project-Restaurant-Team-3-JMP1)
